# Using an Operating Model in Customer Success

> Video ID: ppFz28ZmQtM
> URL: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ppFz28ZmQtM
> Word count: ~10,725
> Cleaned: 2026-04-17 (v3 - deduplicated + reassembled)

---

Well, thank you for having us. Let me introduce YOU MARK KOSAGLO. MARK, HOW ARE YOU doing today?

What up? Chilling, brother. Couldn't wait to do this. This be the highlight of my week.

And if your webinar is the highlight of your week, you're in trouble, I guess. I don't know.

That's what I was just about to say. This is going to This is fun. And so, , we're here to talk about today about CS. Mark, tell me who you are, where you're from. For those of you, everybody knows you, but just for those who are coming from my side of the of the world, who are you and what do you do?

Yeah, great to meet everybody. My name is Mark Kosaglo. I'm the CRO at Catalyst Software. I've been in tech sales for about 10 years. That's when I met Jaco for the first time when where were we at? Menlo Park, I think, and some weird thing. And I I met this guy that had this like three feet tall and 30 foot long scroll that he literally pasted up around the room. And I was like, "This is my type of dude." It had the nth degree of detail on how go to market should be run. And I think you based a lot of stuff off of that initial sacred scroll. Jo, I think I actually still actually do still have it in my office.

It's one of my prized possessions. But yeah, riding shotgun with Jaco today to talk about customer success stuff.

Great. And for those of you who already know me, I'm Jaco Vanic, founder of Winning by Design. Started this company in about 2012 after I believe the way we treated our customers was not reflective of how the customers wanted to be treated. And you know like the the whole idea of elephant hunting and holding people over a barrel all that war terminology that we used in those days just became absolutely foreign to me you know like I am an ad you know an advent supporter of of saving the elephant. So that whole idea of elephant hunting was the wrong terminology. I believe in customer success. I believe in making customers happy and when you do that and you get them successful then everything else will follow. That's the reason why Mark and I aligned so much over the past years and worked for different companies and I work with many different firms.

What we here today, what we here are to bring to you today is a conversation on where customer success is going, where we are seeing and the importance of it.

Mark, do you want me to take it off? Do you want me to kick it off or do you want to take it off? listen, I think I'll kick it off just real quickly by saying I think that there's a seminal moment right now for post sales revenue teams to completely dominate the executive discussion. I don't know of many boards or seale executives that aren't pounding their CS teams to increase retention to figure out expansion and the ball is being handed over and I'm really excited about what I think that we can do as a profession for post sales teams and also like the advancements that we can make. I mean, you know, I I was a first employee at Outreach. I was their head of sales and grew it to $250 million in eight years. And I got the benefit from the top offunnel craziness of let's just keep throwing money top of funnel. And eventually when the new economic circumstances hit, you know, all of a sudden the back half that post sales that second part of the bow tie that Jaco talks about became so much more important and all of a sudden everybody realized it was anemic. Anemic with investment, anemic with people.

They just rifted half the team and now they're asking them to do more. And I think it's a chance for us to step up and do some awesome things to advocate for the profession of post sales revenue teams.

With that said, well said Mark. It is happening. customer success is going to be extremely important over the next couple of weeks, months. And I believe that we are at a water watershed moment where things are changing. So what I'm going to take you through is about like 3 4 minutes of bringing us down to the absolute fundamentals of growth and where we're coming from. Once we understand the fundamentals, we can do whatever we want with it. If you choose that you say like, you know what, I don't want to do it that way. That's fine. I'm just giving you a heads up on where growth comes from. You see these things down here? This saw to this is before there was recurring revenue. This is how I ran business. And in these numbers, you see a year one, let's say I do 10 million. Year two, let's say I do 20 million. year three let's say I do 30 million when you grow that you start every year over at zero okay every year you started at zero so when recurring revenue cames in we thought to oursel this would change and why now notice what happens right notice what happens down here I need to grow from year one to year two if I want to double revenue I need to acquire twice as much revenue not 100% there's an upgrade and support but for later date okay not not too in the weeds right now if I want to grow from 10 to 20. Then in year two, I got to win $20 million in recurring revenue.

If I want to grow from 10 to 20, in year two, I can do exactly the same with exactly the same team and accomplish $20 million as long as my retention is 100%.

Right? This seems as basic as can be, right? Like basic. Okay. In year three with the same team, I'm now growing to 30 million. Fundamentally, fundamentally, this is how recurring revenue is supposed to work. right now.

If I now start growing exponentially fast, in other words, I go like, "Hey, let's hype up the the sales team. Let's bring on a bunch of hunters and whatnot, right? Then I'm going to grow and now I'm growing in year one 10 million. In year two, the same way as I did in perpetual sales, I am now growing my subscription revenue nicely by an u by another 10 million. So, I'm growing like 20 to 30, right? So, this machine works right now. Renewal comes in. what you see squint squint. What do you see?

An exponential growth curve. Okay, still next step. I'm going even further and I'm going like, okay, well, if I can retain it, I probably also can expand.

It goes up even steeper. Voila. French for there you have it. The growth curve occurs. Okay, this growth, this is what fundamentally drove over the past decade. This is what drove revenue growth in as fundamental as this is and what we focused on primarily was on the blue and we assumed that the other two parts were ongoing. What I'm going to depict to you is a little bit of a different perspective. Okay, same data but this is real realistic. This is realistic point of view. Now look what I'm doing. 2013 I'm booking close to $1 million in acquisition total $1 million carry over to year 2014 year two. I retained most of that. I lost a little bit of it. I add a little bit of it. I had some acquisition on top of that and 2.8. Right? I keep doing this. Boom.

Line up that line. Fill it all out in. And here you see a typical growth curve of what we see out there. Right? This is typical what we see. We all we accumulated this data by by you know like from AWS. If I bring that in and there you have the complete growth picture. Okay. And as this picture becomes bigger and bigger and bigger and as I'm trying to depict down here you'll see on the right here triple triple double double double right like not exactly but close to it triple triple this is the growth path that from you know like mid 2015ish this was really what what growth where growth came from triple triple double double today it's you know like some people say T3 D3 I get it but this is it this model now I'm going to show you what to pay attention to what we have lost Okay, we've focused on that part. Why?

You'll see that $1.87 million that came into acquisition. Suddenly that next year they hired a sales team or actually they hired that year and the the team came online in the next year and that suddenly turned into that $5.8 million growth founder goes like fantastic I got every growth I wanted. This could be on a a new founding business. It could be a business unit. This could be a go-to market function. Whatever this is, you'll see this pattern. What I see now is that that pattern starts to carry over to retention, right? Still fantastic. Still feel very basic. Okay, that's still the point. Basic. Now, what you start to see that growth starts to come come in here from retention.

Eventually growth from expansion start to play a meaningful role. Okay. So now I now call this three growth centers, not one, three. acquisition, retention and expansion.

Now here comes the kicker. When I chart these things out, there are three different kind of curves. You see that growth curve is in the beginning that blue acquisition growth curve that follows at the beginning a nice growth curve and then it falters a little bit.

We all know that many companies are in that mode right now that sales is just hampering a little bit. But look how beautiful that pink line stays. Now that pink line follows an exponential growth curve. That pink line stays growing and growing and growing. Fundamentally, fundamentally the misunderstanding that the world of subscription revenue has that it's hyper growth exponential growth pattern is not coming from acquisition nor is it coming from expansion. It is primarily driven by retention. An exponential growth curve like that means disproportionate impact.

small changes, huge impact. You'll see if I move from 2016 to 17, that has a this delta. But if I move from 2020 to 21, it has this delta on the vertical axis. This delta on the horizontal axis per year always the same. This delta on the vertical axis becomes bigger and bigger and bigger. Fundamentally, hyperrowth comes from retentiondriven growth. That is a misunderstanding that has facilitated itself. And I'll give you a practical example. I always use this and Mark perhaps it's a great place to start where you know like where when we consult with a company and we look at their deck right give us your monthly deck right let's say it's 50 pages of decks 50 slides in the deck 48 of the slides have to do with acquisition lead generation compensation people on targets average discount giving ACV like first 48 slides of the deck that that the executive team goes through every month is all about acquisition, acquisition, acquisition.

Towards the end, two two two or you know like a handful of slides as it relates to customer success, NPS score, churn metrics and so on and that is how they're running the business.

Everybody's tired at the end of the meeting after a 60 to 90 minute meeting.

They come to those slides, it's like yeah, move on, move on, move on. This is reality every day in out for many of us, right? That is the problem. We have fundamentally what I'm proving to you here. Growth is completely driven by the customer success team. This is you know like this is a fundamental machinery mathematically proven yet practically the customers are unable to adjust their business to that. Mark dude am I alone on this or is am I am I the only one seeing this? I may or may not have been in a majority of board meetings where this phrase well sales has gone a little long. So CS I think you only have five minutes left to do your slides and they motor through their all their their deck. U so listen I think it's a a disease. I think the disease started in the perpetual license revenue model where the winning of the deal which is all that you could do was so celebrated and so important and that carried through into a lot of modern-day revenue leaders that grew up in that model and so they continue to celebrate what they know and what they know is awesome is a new logo win and they don't understand the importance of celebrating the retained customer win. I mean, at Outreach, we would have a boom email that would go out for a new logo. There was no equivalent of that for when we would do our biggest retention of a multi-million dollar customer. We'd boom a $12,000 new logo and not say anything about the $12 million renewal. And so, I think that that legacy thinking has really invaded modern revenue leaders.

That's where they grew up. That's what they know. People always retreat to what they're comfortable to. And so I think that back in the last seven years or so of grow at all costs, it was easy to keep pumping money top of funnel and shortch changing and ignoring what was happening on the second half of the bow tie. And now we're in a state of panic if you ask me where a lot of boards are saying, I don't understand. Why don't we have retention? Our product's so awesome. Well, maybe your product isn't that awesome. You just had a great sales team that was good at getting deals in and you forgotten about the real core part which is driving impact for your customers. You are driving impact for your prospects. Do you know how many times I went to a product meeting to get on the road map and I was able to get what I wanted as a pre-sales leader but my post sales leader wasn't able to get what they needed in order to retain customers. I bet I won 90 time 90% of the time. And so like this mindset has to change. And it starts a lot of times with somebody talking and educating these old school sales leaders that are thinking with a perpetual life license.

They're playing a SAS game with a perpetual license rule book. And you have to change the rules or you're going to lose the current game we're in, which is all about retaining and expanding Now, you mentioned the bow tie a couple of times, right? Perhaps I should because I don't think everybody's 100% familiar with it. So, perhaps I should just touch briefly upon it. What do you think?

I think so. Yeah, 100%. I think it's foundational to thinking.

Okay. What you see here on the left is the funnel, the usual funnel tipped on its side. That funnel has lead generation, lead development, and sales.

Okay. That is the left side of the bow, customer acquisition. What I just spoke about is that we also have the motion on the expansion part and the retention part that is represented at the right.

What I'm going to do is I'm going to connect the two of them with what I call a commit. Not a close, not a win, not nothing like that. A commit. And if I want to go further, I'm going to call it a mutual commit. Two parties, the buyer and the seller get together and they mutually commit. And it is a true commitment. If you ask many providers, we're talking about a multi-year commitment in order for a successful customer to be successful financially for the seller. They often need to be in the range of three plus years, you know, like from that same customer. Sometimes five, six, seven years. That is truly a mutual commitment.

Today we have a detailed description on the lead genen and programs and so on.

We do not have a detailed description on the phases and stages that takes place on what we call on the right side of the bow tie. That bow tie has a little arrow there that twists around. Right? When I showed you that that hyperbolic curve a second ago, that is where those arrows come. They are generated right there.

That is creating a system that we want. What I'm going to say the goal of re in order to get that growth, you need to achieve recurring revenue. Recurring revenue gets you there. If your customer comes back, renews and expands.

Recurring revenue. What the fundamental principle is the fundamental principles is of what an entire recurring revenue operation is based on is that the result recurring revenue is a result not a goal. We for the longest time as organizations have focused recurring revenue is the goal. No, no, no.

Recurring revenue is what comes out of the box. It's not what's in the box, not what you put into the box. It what comes out of the machine. What makes recurring revenue is recurring impact.

First principle of recurring revenue is recurring revenue is the result of recurring impact. If you do not deliver recurring impact, you will not get recurring revenue. Go think about your Netflix, Disney subscriptions, whatever you know like subscriptions you're currently unsubscribing of. If you're unsubscribing of a subscription, you do that because the impact that you get from it no longer warrants the investment you're making. The recurring impact ain't there and therefore you're taking away their recurring revenue.

Recurring impact is the goal. If we achieve recurring impact, then we get re recurring revenue, we get expansion, retention, everything will everything will flow out of that. All based on deliver the customer recurring impact.

Mark, that's kind of like where where the word impact came in from as well.

And I I noticed that you have have used some of your thinking about here over the past years.

Yeah. So, I've completely instrumented catalyst with this thing. If you look at that bow tie slide, you're going to see six or seven distinct areas and each of those areas represents where something magic happens in the customer journey.

If you're in that lead dev area, that's where your SDRs usually live. They receive the the output of lead genen which would be an MQL or ICP accounts from RevOps as their book of business and then they output something to sales qualified pipeline right and what you can do is when you organize your your go to market motion this way you can create roles that own that area and when they own an area you can measure what is their conversion of inputs to outputs and then how long does it take it to do it you have multiple levers in order to optimize and then the back half is just where it's completely barren. There's just so little instrumentation, very little tooling. There's lots it's very difficult to find best practices. I can find today on LinkedIn no less than 100 posts on how to start a cold call. I bet you I can find less than two posts on how to navigate a difficult retention conversation with someone. And so like that's where I'm starting to see like the the market and what's needed in the market are not aligned right now. And I think that that's where impact can come in. If you look at this, what I think is the genius of this model, impact is at every place. You know, you have to identify it. You have to like your marketers need to take the impact that your onboarders can deliver deliver in 30 to 45 days and they need to market with that. Your STRs need to make a promise and book a meeting around that.

Your AES need to show how we can deliver on the promise and that impact and then your onboarders have to deliver on the promise and say listen we actually can do what we said we were going to do and now we can go back and ask for more areas where we can have impact and when you ask for more areas for impact that's a way to ask for more money and so here's something that I've been showing people a lot recently is this is a really interesting model so if I take a an axis and I have value and time like this. What I'm seeing most companies do is they start out, they sign the deal, they do implementation.

There's obviously no value that you gain during implementation and then all of a sudden they c they roll out this huge solution. There's some adoption, there's some additional you know value that's created. Actually, I have my axes wrong.

Jaco is going to kill me, Mr. graphics. and then that value kind of plateaus over time, right? And so when the value plateaus, we end up with like a renewal event that happens out here at month 12 and we haven't done very much additional value since month four when we implemented. And so the customer comes back and says, "What have you done for me lately?" And listen, we're all humans. We're all trying to answer the question, "What have you done for me lately?" all the time. and you can can't say you've done anything lately because you're so exhausted after this huge implementation project that you just kind of left them on their own after that. And Jo and I have talked a lot about like you've given them the work to get value out of their product. You can't give the prospect work to get value out of their product. That doesn't make sense.

You have to go ahead maybe in month nine or 10 they hired a new person. That person couldn't find their password and so all they recall is there was a bad password. support experience, right? You go like okay that you know like there's so many like day in dayout activities that if you do not help create that value that automatically set create you know questioning the customer whether you are actually there to help them.

That's exactly right. And I think what we're trying to say with impact is rather than spending two or three or four months doing it, why don't you start a little bit shorter? Why don't you say, "Listen, we're going to do a little bit less and we're going to stair step it like this so that there's times of implementation and times of of adoption and so that this becomes these areas of recurring impact. This is where you just add a little bit more." And so, , at Catalyst, what we have decided is we've created solutions. A solution is literally a series of features and functionality that solve a job that needs to be done by someone. And we've created little experiences inside those solutions. So we can deliver one solution and then we can give you multiple moments of impact so the customer is always seeing this. And then what we do is every time we launch a new solution, we come in and we ask for expansion dollars. So we build in several things. One, we build in there's no need for QBR anymore because we're constantly doing value. So they're constantly meeting with us. Every time we get to an area where we need to do a solution or moment of impact, we double check. Are we aligned with the business initiatives that you care about? Do you have a slide in your board meeting about this right now? If you don't, then why are we doing it? And the major mistake that happens in implementation is you immediately get delegated to below the power line or BTL people. Their priorities are fundamentally different than the people that buy the software.

And so when you get trapped down there, you end up implementing stuff that they care about, not the stuff the executives care about. and there becomes a huge misalignment in solutioning and the value and outcomes they're trying to create. And so this helps you get that, hey, we're going to come back again. We do it all the time. We, you know, we meet every 30 to 90 days with somebody in that time period. We show them what we've done. We ask them if what we're going to do next align their business initiatives. We give them a menu of things to pick from and then we do it again and we do it again and we do it again. And we have a human-based way to do that and we have a tech touchbased way to do that so that we can guide our customers through the system all the way through all of our segments. We have a a component of that. So tech touch is a strategy. It's not a segment strategy.

And so this is how I think that companies these days that are really starting to align to this idea that recurring impact is the driver of recurring revenue are starting to architect their post sales processes in order to make sure that fundamentally they understand and have a process that drives that recurring impact and it's not just something that they're hoping Okay, let me pick it like like let me throw some fuel on the fire there because that's what I do. I throw fuel on the fire. Like what Mark spoke about is that there are a few of these moments. We call them moments that matter, you know, like there's many ways to describe them, but these these are the unique moments.

Where do you start? You just listen to Mark, you go like, where do I start? I like what I like it. I want to do something like this. So what you'll see here on the left side of the blow tie, blue is sales, pink is is expansion and retention and and and renewal. And so what you'll see are the pink mo the blue moments. The blue moments for example, this is a fantastic landing on the website. That first moment, right? That second blue one, that is the second part of the stage. This is like what Mark spoke about what he did at outreach, a great out discovery call or something like that. And that third blue ice cream there, that is a popsicle moment that we refer to as like, oh, a fantastic proposal, well listened, customized, felt like they they received me. All these moments, it's plenty. There's a lot of people working on that. But now we go to the pink moments to the right.

So I'm going now to the other side. What I'm going to say is like look on onboarding here are a few moments that you can consider that really make a difference. the way that a customer gets hand off from one person to another person. I I explained to you this example. I was recently I went to this restaurant, okay? And this particular restaurant we did not make reservations. It was on a Friday night.

Shame on us. I get this. Shame on us. We did not res make reservations in some smaller city. We walk into the restaurant. U the person who the lady who's trying to see looks us up and says like, "Oh, you never made no reservations." I'm like, "No, but could you see that the restaurant is empty, mind you? Empty." Okay. And she goes back and she goes behind the bar, talks to the the owner of the place probably, and they're whispering. And I tell you, there's nothing wrong with us.

Marine and I look dashing. My wife looks dashing. I look the way I always look, but she looks dashing, but she comes back and says, "No, we can't see you."

Okay? You like, and I don't know about if this happened to you, but I feel rejected. I feel like I've been discriminated for my bald head.

Whatever. Pick something. Right? It doesn't feel right. I go to the next restaurant, an even better restaurant.

, and it's down Los Altos for those of you who aren't familiar with the the Silicon Valley. And it's called Flower.

And I'm walking up and there's the dude that is parking the cars, the valet person. And he is already looking at smiling at us and he says, "Welcome. How are you doing? How is your night going?"

Right? And I go like, "It's fantastic." And and he says, "Are you looking by for dinner?" And I go like, "Yeah, I'm looking for dinner." and he says, "Let me go check with the bartender." Right?

And he comes back in and he says, "I just spoken to the bartender. We have two seats at the bar." He walks us in and he hands us off to the bartender.

That is a handoff. You feel welcome. You feel like there's communication between the team. That is what I mean with handoff. Kickoff. A proper kickoff. Not a kickoff to get you to know how to use the product. A kickoff how to get you to first impact. What happens when you're joined at first impact? that you have a joint impact plan. If you look at adoption, are you helping them drive impact? Do you have a review with them on impact? Are you having forum of of trigger plays? And trigger plays could mean, hey, there's an impact that the customer is currently not seeing that we should help with and so on and so forth.

All these things, but these are the moments that matter. Pick one of it doesn't matter too much which one you picked. You don't have to pick all of them at the same time. Pick one, two, or at most three. Focus on those moments.

Achieve help the customer achieve impact. I can tell you one of the most important plays that we see frequently go wrong is that now I'll give you a screenshot of all the plays that we nowadays run at winning by design. I give you a the the one that goes wrong the most common is that people are not informing the customer when they've achieved impact. They assume that the customer will figure this out.

The customer doesn't figure this. They don't know it. They only know when the password went wrong and you didn't show up to help them with the passport.

That's what they remember. but they don't remember when you saw something going almost off the rails, you call them up and you fix it. You got to let them know that, right? You got to let them know, hey, you're missing out on this more impact. Do you want that? Or it's fine. You don't have to, but there's an expansion opportunity, not for me, the revenue. The expansion opportunity is for you with the impact.

That mindset, that idea, what you see down here, some of these plays, that is what we call an impact driven mindset.

And you see the word impact is driven in each of these plays. deliver impact, achieve impact, deliver impact, notify of impact, identify new impact, right?

All that is what that's what the customer wants. And I tell you what your analogy is. Okay? How many of you are not reliant on a really good friend that tells you what is the what what TV episode should I follow tonight? because I am unwilling to go through the journey of the multiple TV programs, Netflix, Amazon, Apple TV to figure out just can somebody just tell me on a Friday night, go dive this series for this weekend.

This is good. And once I have a friend that gives me that good series, that impact, I go back to that friend. Damn, I got another one. What are you watching right now? Right. And you know, like I'm late to the game, but we're watching Yellowstone right now, my son and I, and we're loving it. Right. So, and nobody in this case told me that. I figured my son brought that series to me.

Obviously, it's obvious. But the point is that impact of a TV series and knowing that somebody can tell you in advance that is going to get you there is a lot better than you surfing and trying to find out what is good.

Marco, let me let me give you a a real world example of this. So, if you look at that first impact under on boarding, you're going to see handoff.

I I did like an informal poll my first 50 days here at Catalyst. talked to a hundred of our customers and I would say handoff was in the top three things that people think that they stink at on almost every hundred conversations I have. It's just really hard. But when you have this operating model to organize yourself around, what we did is we've here at Catalyst is we pulled the the handoff process into the sales cycle. And so in order for the onboarder to deliver what we call our four core solutions in the first 30 days, we need to start getting information in the sales cycle to prep that up. So we have a worksheet that's required by our AEES to be filled out prior to close once we feel really good about the deal.

We then have a meeting with the onboarder to introduce them to the customer and show them how they're going to use this data to deliver these four core solutions. And then the handoff has just happened. is before the contract's even signed that the customer already knows the implement implementation manager they're going to use. They already somehow the work of the worksheet that they put together is going to use to help them deliver value fast. And then I would say like to me what I'm seeing is is you see number four 04 first impact. This is the one where I think that we have a chance to change culture. Again, most revenue cultures are based around celebrating the win, the signing of the contract. I can't think of a more self-serving naval gazing celebration that there is. Is like we signed it. Pop the corks, write the commission checks. There's nothing about the customer in there at all. What we're doing at Catalyst is we're reindexing our culture to celebrate first impact. We don't celebrate until that customer gets something that they paid Catalyst for. That's when we can start to celebrate. because we do that and I've done a bunch of work with a buddy of mine and he runs he ran sales at Fastley when he took him public. He now's running sales at Domo.

His name's Chris Kennedy. Super smart guy. He's done a ton of data analysis over the years and he's figured out that the the if you can shrink the time to second deal. Everything else comes from that. And celebrating that first impact is your first chance to ask for an expansion. Like there everybody's like, "Oh, it's too early. It's from the first 30 days." I got so much momentum from a great sales process, from a great handoff, from a great implementation experience to immediate time to value. I just had our first G2 review for an 11-day implementation. And we celebrate that implementation impact. And then we start asking for expansion dollars and asking for more ways that we can help out. And that to me is kind of like how you take this conceptually and a real world example of how like when you understand these different areas that you can optimize, if you have a model to fit it into, you can create processes that your people automatically do these things well versus struggling because they don't really have an idea of why do I need to pass it to the onboarder that doesn't benefit me at all. And so we've really clearly outlined what the benefit is to the AE of introducing the implementation manager quickly.

Mark, you like what I'm going to complement this with and I'm going to type it down and see if some of you can so far let me ask the the the audience type in the chat box what is your key takeaway so far? help us out there. Look at what is your big you know an aha moment a key takeaway a key question or something like that come up please type it in the t box chat box meeting chat type in what is your key takeaway that awkward moment and yes thank you I need one I like to celebrate impact not contract part thank you Stefan deal starts when first impact is celebrate early and celebrate often.

Yes. Last topic was great. I love the idea of celebrating impact also the love the statement boom 12,000 new logo and not Yeah. There we go. Right. Yeah.

Yeah. Exactly right. And so what you'll see is let's say we pick that impact moment now. Right. What what if I now you know like how do I now create that that moment? Let me see what is I'm looking for first impact drive impact process impact business review renewal expansion. There we go. Where's O4? 04 got stolen. Okay. So, what you'll see down here is is a horizontal vertical axis. And what we now do is we use a a way how can we implement this first impact thing. How can we how can we learn from from best practices? And what you see down here is a depicted screenshot of like a visual process that explain to people that we can say where we're at, right? And so what you'll see implementation takes place integration onboarding passwords whatever needs to done keep the then once that is being done you'll see down here keep the customer engaged with short keep the customer engaged with short notification notify any delay regardless who and what caused it. If you're at fault because something happened, let the customer know, hey, we're causing a delay. Because if you start the implementation and you are not within like said, let's say in worst case scenario, in many cases, two weeks, three weeks, four weeks, you have huge imp you know, high churn risk, your churn is you know like up to that point of first impact is huge. If you don't get that, if you achieve the first impact, first moment they can use your product to do something new and contribute to the product, you need to let them know that. You need to make sure that they know that, right? Confirm to the customer that that impact is is perceived that is achieved. You need to know that. Right? When you do that, you can start developing an impact plan with them. Hey, we achieved this. We got the first 10 users on boarded. We got the first impact over the next 12 months.

Like Mark showed that staircase. Here's the moment that you're going to see impact. Once you get up to 20 users, 50 users, once you get up to X amount of usage, once how many folders you've opened, whatever it is that your product does, at that stage, I'm going to let you know, I'm going to come back and talk to you because that will be a moment. You call that the joint impact plan. You lay out in this process what the impact, this often happens within the first week, what does the next 11 months of engagement look like with us?

And you're going to use that from past customers. You can already highlight oh and in October of your let's say we're in whatever July on October we're going to all gather at this event where we're going to discuss best practices. That is the idea. You visualize it. Where are you at? If you're in that moment in time, you know the customer has signed but you haven't achieved that impact yet. You're here. You're in that valley down there. And if you don't deliver that impact, if you don't keep them engaged, if you're not letting them know why there's a delay, could be your site, could be their site to achieve that first impact, you're going to you're you're exposed to churn these days.

Okay, that was my contribution. Mark, save me myself.

Yeah, listen, I I just think as humans, we have a very difficult time correctly attributing value to things. And I think that we see this in a ton in our personal lives, but I think it translates very directly to the professional stuff that we do. And you know, I you know, it's crazy to me that, you know, at outreach we could increase somebody piped in 400% in the first three months and maybe we had moderate increases after that and then they would come back and saying we hadn't done anything for them. And you do have to put it in front of their face. And I would tell you if you're trying to use QBRs to do that, I I don't think that it's effective. I I did a again a little poll when I was talking to a bunch of CS leaders and the amount of QBRs where executives don't show up is more than half and the amount of QBRs that get pushed is more than a third. And if you're right people aren't showing up and the meeting is constantly getting pushed, then it's an invaluable meeting.

And no matter how much you it means to you personally, it means nothing to your customer. I'll never forget the first QBR I went to with a software company we all know probably most of us use and all I felt with it was like it was a please don't churn in nine months meeting and that has no value to me and so I think that we have to get that impact once you organize around that you actually have something to talk about you have a meeting that people are interested in if you've done a good job in the sales cycle of aligning impact to the business initiatives they need to know that your what your impact was and and they're interested in knowing that. And then once you've done it once, you earn the right to ask to do it again. Once you've done it multiple times, you start to be a person that they come to to ask for suggestions on how to solve stuff. And that's when the relationship between being a vendor and a trusted partner changes. And that's a great way to start thinking about how do I organize what do I organize around? Because I'm telling you, 98% of CS organizations organize around retention. That is not what you should organize around. Retention is a means to an end. What you want to organize around is growth. The way that you grow is you get recurring revenue.

The way you get recurring revenue, as we've seen, is recurring impact. You need to organize around impact and define what that is and how you deliver it so that your teams have a really clear path to achieving that for their customers.

Mark, and I I'm I'm speaking on behalf of Winning by Design here. I I called you up was it feels like a few days ago but it was probably before the weekend and I shared with Mark something that I personally experienced here at winning by design. We are an impactentric company. What I noticed that what we're doing we started to mistake the customer having a great experience with the customer having a great impact. And so when we get messages from a customer being happy with a trainer training on Tom, let's say a trainer trains on the first impact program, right? And we then get message back, oh my gosh, Aaliyah was a fantastic trainer. She is a fantastic trainer, right? But she was fantastic.

We loved it. We felt that, you know, like subconsciously, we didn't speak about it, but like it felt like we had accomplished the goal, but Aaliyah being a great person and being a great trainer only masquerades potentially that we haven't delivered the impact. And so what I found that we as human beings have done even ourselves at winning by design where we profess some of these things that we ourselves went wrong that we mistake we started to mistake customers letting us know how great we were and how fantastic the experience were is actually not the same as the Look at him in thought over there. I mean he's typing clearly he's answering a question on chat.

I'm answering a question. Yes. I was just saying somebody asked about the QBR and you know I was just typing it's it's a randomly timed like who decided every 90 days is when we need to talk about something that that's just because it was simple to decide that once a quarter and then we got enough bandwidth to do that right and in worst case it's super low value it's a bunch of usage metrics I don't care if my people are using it or not what I care is it's delivering the impact the QBR did is like hey we found out that your reps listen to this many call recordings Oh, like I looked on there and the ones that were listening to it the most were my lowest performers. Probably because they were listening to the call recordings all the time instead of like actually getting busy selling stuff, right? And it was very focused on them. They were just wanted to talk to me about how awesome they were and all these awards and this and that. I don't care about the awards either, right? What I care about is like, are you actually doing something for me? And so instead, if you have an impact, guess what, Jaco? We just got together. You asked us about improving your churn rate by five points. We just had our C our first quarter that looks like it was about five points above your historical average per quarter. Like these are two, three things that we did to help you achieve that. We think there's two or three other things that we could be doing too if you let us talk to you about that that maybe could get you an extra point or two to blow this goal out of the water. Like can we show you what those are? Boom. Like that's a conversation that every executive on earth wants to have.

Mark, that's where we need to be. There's a few different kinds of in using the trigger word impact down here.

There's there there's a few ones that come ones that come because you know like you hit you went for them you know like NR metrics right you know you shot for 1.1 10% NR 110% NR you shot for that ones that are scheduled to come you know like hey every year there's a 1 of January the world change and there's one that's reactionary okay we see that the a person at the company the champion left and there's one that has to deal with price increases. You know that the price increase is coming. Is everybody trained on the team to discuss that and what the why that is? Right? And I I'll take a a brief note on that because many of you are experiencing this.

I want you to understand that SAS and pricing by in the end was not inclusive of upgrade and support. It was not. If you understand what the history of SAS pricing comes from, it comes from something like this. I sold a piece of software for a million dollars and every customer I had to sell this to had their own piece of software.

Literally, they got their own drives with their own sticker on it, right?

Their own discs with their sticker on. We ship that. And so if I had five customers, I had five software packages going, each mailed envelope shipped out, right? And and so often each of these software programs was customuilt. It was custom printed. It came out of a machine who inserted that custom disc and made that custom. Very custom. Okay, sometimes with custom features on it. So now when I had five customers, that was not a problem. But when I had 30 customers and 40 customers and I upgraded software, this became a major headache. And so I started to charge upgrade and support charges 20%. And so every year that the customer wanted to get the upgrade and support services, they had to pay 20% and you had to commit to that upfront. So you bought a million dollar package with 20% upgrade and support. And so over three years, a little bit more, but you got 1.6 times the revenue, right? Then with cloud, we said, let's remove the million dollars because everybody's on the cloud and everybody's using the same software. So now customers only pay 20%. Hence the recurring revenue service. We remove the upfront cost. Customers got a huge benefit from this. They no longer have to pay the million dollars upfront.

Now when I send you a disc and when I send you features with that disc and you pay 20%. That means that over a period of three years you were going to get one upgrade more or less one upgrade. You still experience this with Apple and Microsoft only do major upgrades once every two years and still resist. SAS on the other hand because you signed into the SAS service you got all these new features every month every week and you kept you kept increasing. So the product that you bought if you are a good SAS company a year later that product should be more featurerich it should be able to do more things that is the reason why you can raise prices to a customer you know there has of course the world you you know like financial indices go up as well that is also valid but you the customer has a valid you have a valid point to tell the customer if you've done your job correct why because you listen to your customers you improve your product bug fixes, that's not fair, right? They already that should be fixed. But the new features they're getting, this means that you have to talk, you know, upfront to your customers about where the price increase comes from. If you do not train your your your customer success team on that or you have to kick that back to sales to do that, sales is not going to do that correctly and customer success ain't not going to do that correctly without training. You got to let people know how to do that. That's six, five, six, seven, 8% increase a year. That is hella important to the company to do in particularly in these cases. Would you lower the cost right now? No. We often recommend that during a downturn like this, customers actually increase the price. Maybe not by 10%. Don't get me wrong, but you got to increase the price because you're going to sift through which customers are willing to pay as long as you train your team to handle that conversation. Mark?

Yeah. Well, listen, I I think the understanding that perpetual license connection to what we're currently doing really helps you understand like how to think about pricing right now. And you know, on my team, I think, you know, we understand that the buyers have the leverage and we have to really make sure that we're delivering a ton of value in the sales process and post sales for expansion opportunities. And if your team, it's funny, Jaco, u I've did a I talked to a lot of people and there's a huge gap between commercial skill enablement for post sales and pre-sales people. Like pre-sales people have been through 83 trainings on how to do a discovery call. Post sales people haven't usually been through one serious training session with an actual person that comes in and is a master of what they do and shows them how to do it.

they handle it all internally because they don't have the budget or they don't understand who the experts are or some of the processes are so different than what they do because there's so many different practices that are happening out there because best practice in post sales has really been limited and hasn't been hasn't been available to a lot of people and so I think that you know if you're going to have those commercial conversations post sales you have to train them like your commercial pre-sales people because they're the same kind of conversations and that's difficult thing because that's a big skill set plus the successing and adoption skill set is a big skill set too. So there's a lot to do there that you have to break down.

Okay. as we start to wrap up a few a few things I want to point out.

We knew that this situation was going to occur. We knew that at the we already knew a few years ago that this op this growth at any and all cost could not sustain itself. We knew that right. It was just a matter of how. And to be honest, we knew this around 201819 co actually inflated us back into any growth and all cost. We knew but we knew it was going to come. So as the bubble burst you know like or the SAS market crashed we also knew that the layoffs we grew over the past decade the golden age from a thousand companies to 35,000 companies. Many SAS providers grew by selling more to other SAS providers. So as the market grew from a,000 to 35,000 we created a system that we that we sold to ourselves. this entire system inflated itself, right? , and so today we see that the market is shrinking. We see many companies, you know, like still letting go of people. It has faded away.

But if you go to layoffs.fyi, you'll see that over the past three quarters, we had far more layoffs than than on in sometimes in a single month more than during the entire time of COVID. These layoffs are going to shrink the market.

That means I have less Zoom licenses to sell. I have less catalyst licenses to sell. If the company on the other side has fewer people to sell them to, right?

Natural natural thing is going to happen as a result naturally NR is going down.

David Spitz just reported this on LinkedIn. I'll type it quickly in Dave Spitz. David Spitz reported just on LinkedIn this particular metric and this particular metric is that NR is going to come is coming down about about 5 percentage points which as I pointed to you earlier because of it exponential impact has a huge impact. Okay. So it's already happening. So, what's going to happen next? What do we all think is going to happen next?

Take a breather for a second. Okay. NR is coming down. I'm not acquiring as many companies. What's What's happening, Mark? Do you have an What is going to happen next? What do you think in this world?

If you're a venture-driven company, if you're a startup, you know, $30 million revenue, $5 million revenue, $150 million revenue, what is what is about to happen next?

Well, I think that the thing everybody's wondering about is what impact does AI have on what I'm doing. And so I there's a massive run to figuring out how to handle that, what to do with it. You know, I think there was a little novelty writing emails. Like listen, I don't think writing emails is a real value ad to be honest with you. You know, summarizing calls maybe. I don't know.

But to me, that's what I'm that's what I'm thinking about. That's what I'm hear most people talking about. I don't know if that's what you were after, Jaco, but that's a thing.

Oh, no. I'm not after anything. I I I think that there's a number of things going to happen. Number one thing, y I do believe AI is going to come in and maybe be a lower cost. Why? Because people want to cut cost on CS. What you're going to find logically, people are going to cut on CS. Why? Because they're not in the world. They're not contributing to to revenue growth. My first thought that you as an executive have to do if you're listening to this, you have to explain through that charge that I put early on, you have to explain where growth comes from. You have to explain retention. You have to position it as a form of growth. Retention is a form of growth. Why? You have to renew.

It won't come automatically. And so you have to pursue it as if it's it's something. Second thing that's going to happen, CS is going to be replaced either by AI or by sales. Somebody in the sales organization says, "Hey, I can do what they do." And they're going to do that. The problem when that happens, I give you a heads up. The problem when that happens when and I need you to be armed with this insight so you can have this conversation.

If sales is being put on customer expansion it means that the compensation plan of the salesperson is being applied to the expansion sales. It means that the cost of sales the acquisition cost is held against the expansion cost.

Normally the cost of an existing customer I'm managing is a fraction of that of acquisition cost. If I make the cost the same thing, it means that not only is my growth slowing down, but my cost is exponentially going up since my salespeople are now being compensated for the dollars that should have gone to the customer success team. It is really ill advised to do that because the company is now having an oral spill problem that is spilling out into the existing customer world. I'm not even talking if they have the right skill set and whether they should be talking about it. I'm purely talking mathematically from the fundamentals. I'm suddenly seeing my cost rise to go to expansion and that is primarily because that the headcount cost is hitting their books right now and the expansion cost that is going up with salary will hit them at the end of the year. You need to explain this to to to your management team that this is not the right way to do it. We have videos for that on YouTube people.

So if we can help just click on one of these videos, use them to to amplify Yeah, a different mindset. Thank you, Dave. David Allen. The point here really is there's a very different mindset when you sell of selling and to close a deal.

And and the reason why that acquisition cost is so much higher in general is because you're dealing with, you know, like you have to call on five times as many customers to win one whereas an expansion that metric should be a lot more beneficial. So after that, after this occurs, okay, I want you to to to see what's going on. the next steps. I would love for any CS reps, if you're in CS, if you're managing a CS team, if you're head of customer success, you you need to learn mathematically where growth come from.

You need to know unit economics, what what how things contribute and you need to get closer to your CFO and CFO team.

Do that. That is your best road over the next six to 12 months. get close to the CFO, understand what the costs are, understand where profit comes from, understand what a profitable customer look like, work with the CFO to identify who are the most profitable customers.

Think about it that way. That is the best immunity that you can have. We are not through the storm yet, people. We're not through the storm yet. We are going into two more quarters of this before 2024. And I we do think that 2024 will look a lot lot better, but we still think that we we want to make sure that you're prepared for this. the reason Mark that you and I immediately partnered on this once you landed the sweet gig at Catalyst was because we think about both the same thing.

Customer success is a revenue center is a profit center. Customer success is where growth and profit come from, where it originates. Catalyst builds a product to facilitate that. Winning by design builds a methodology, right? But that catalyst has that mindset. The mindset is customer success is a profit center in the growth center. With that said, Mark, any passing words? Any closing words?

No. Appreciate the time, Jaco. As always, fun spitballing with you, talking through stuff. I think that you can tell Jaco and I are both really passionate about this topic. I think it is the topic for software and SAS sales companies right now. And companies that don't figure it out are never going to catch back up to the companies that did figure it out. And I think that there's a big weight on the back of post sales leaders, CCOs, SVPs, and VPs of CS to really come armed with strong talking points, strong theory, and good data to help these old school revenue leaders start to understand that if they don't invest in their customers and the impact that their customers have, the model is going to eventually spit them out. right now in the current economic conditions that the SAS model does not reward acquisition heavy c customers forever although only up to about five six million after that it's all expansion and growth and and and retention fant fantastic Mark appreciate you being here to everybody attending thank you for joining this session the recording will be shortly available we recommend that you share it with people inside the company so that you know like education education education education if they are not if the eyes are not open yet educate them. With that said, thank you all. Fantastic. Talk to you later.

Bye-bye. Thanks, Hiner. Thanks, Ian. Thanks, David. Thanks, Chase. Thanks, Stefan. Thanks, Next Screen. Oh, there's too many. Thanks, Adam. Thanks, Sam.

Thanks, , and so on. Everybody, just